[tech-papers] A short paper on verification through epochs (#2161)
libra/libra: tech-papers/lbft-verification/lbft-verification.tex

\item Each intermediate end-of-epoch \texttt{LedgerInfo} is added to the storage after \texttt{StateSynchronizer} verifies that its local accumulator state matches the metadata of this \texttt{LedgerInfo} (this is possible because chunks are executed sequentially and never cross epoch boundaries).
\end{itemize}

\section{Waypoints}
\label{waypoints}
\subsection{Motivation}
\label{waypoint-motivation}
A \emph{cold} node (the one that comes online for the first time, or after a long period of being disconnected), faces a problem of the initial syncup because it might no longer trust the old public keys of the historical validators it is aware of, which could have been compromised since then (the so called “long range attack”).

> We are using \emph{Waypoints} as an off-chain mechanism for providing the initial trusted set of validators and a point in the accumulator history. Waypoints are going to be published by the association on a regular basis (e.g., on libra.org once in a couple of weeks), and can be embedded within the nodes (clients / full nodes / validators) as a trusted “starting point”.

Reviewer: Some of this will need to be agreed on by the TSC.  It might be better to omit details until there is agreement.

```suggestion
\emph{Waypoints} can be used as an off-chain mechanism for selecting the initial trusted set of validators and a specific points of blockchain time in the accumulator history. Waypoints can be published by anyone.  The Libra Association is also expected to publish waypoints  on a regular basis (e.g., on libra.org).  Any waypoint selected by clients can be embedded within the nodes (clients / full nodes / validators) as a trusted “starting point”.
```

The trusted points in history determined by the waypoints can be used in the following situations:
\begin{itemize}

> \item \textbf{Long range attacks}: trusted recovery relative to a recent point in time for a cold node that does not have an uptodate information locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item \textbf{Long range attacks}: trusted recovery relative to a recent point in time for a cold node that does not have an up-to-date information locally.
```

        \rust{value: HashValue}
}
}
\end{algorithm}

The fields of a LedgerInfo that are included in the waypoint value are \texttt{epoch}, \texttt{root\_hash}, \texttt{version}, \texttt{timestamp}, and \texttt{next\_validator\_set}. Note that we cannot include all the fields because they might not be deterministic: different clients might observe different values of e.g., \texttt{consensus\_block\_id} of the latest \texttt{LedgerInfo} in an epoch.

The textual representation of a Waypoint is  "version:hex encoding of the root hash". For example, the current testnet genesis waypoint is \newline \texttt{"0:a17035961b97359bcc22b628c1e269f543b265220d22a17e4a5b4e3aed86855b"}.

\subsection{Verifying the latest LedgerInfo with waypoints}
\label{waypoint-li-verification}
As described in Section~\ref{verification-epochs}, an \texttt{UpdateToLatestLedgerResponse} message carries a data structure for verifying validator changes, \texttt{ValidatorChangeProof}, which contains a list of all the epoch change \texttt{LedgerInfos}. A client verifies this list in an iterative fashion starting with its initial trusted \texttt{ValidatorSet}.

> \begin{figure}[ht]

Reviewer 2: it would be helpful if this figure included the information which is used in the text (w_60, w_80, etc.)

	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/waypoint-verification.pdf}
	\caption{\footnotesize{The first LedgerInfo in the \texttt{ValidatorChangeProof} is verified via a local waypoint.}}
	\label{fig:waypoint-verification}
\end{figure}

Waypoint verification is working slightly differently as shown in Figure~\ref{fig:waypoint-verification}.
A waypoint version corresponds to the last version of an epoch (version $0$ being somewhat special and corresponding to the last and only version of epoch $0$).
Hence, the \texttt{ValidatorChangeProof} in the response starts with the end-of-epoch \texttt{LedgerInfo} corresponding to the waypoint: this very first \texttt{LedgerInfo} is verified using the waypoint. The rest of the epoch changes is verified in a regular manner.

\subsection{State synchronization with waypoints}
\label{waypoint-state-sync}

> Unfortunately, the verification of the latest \texttt{LedgerInfo} by itself might not be enough for secure state synchronization.

Reviewer 2: In the example below, why can't B provide C with the same proof for W_80 that B obtained?

Consider a following scenario:
\begin{itemize}
\item Full node $A$ has reached epoch $100$.
\item Full node $B$ has $A$ configured as its upstream. $B$ latest known epoch is $10$ and it is restarted with waypoint $W_{80}$ corresponding to the last version of epoch $80$.
\item Full node $C$ has $B$ configured as its upstream. $C$ latest known epoch is $10$ and it is restarted with waypoint $W_{60}$ corresponding to the last version of epoch $60$.
\end{itemize}

> What is the right way for $B$ to synchronize its state to $A$? Given a waypoint $W_{80}$, $B$ can retrieve all the transaction chunks up to the end of epoch $80$ with proofs relative to the latest \texttt{LedgerInfo} of epoch $80$, however, that would not include the \texttt{LedgerInfos} for all the epoch changes prior to epoch $80$. As a result, $B$ would not be able to help node $C$ to synchronize its state from epoch $60$ to epoch $80$ because it doesn't have the \texttt{LedgerInfos} on epoch boundaries to prove the validator changes in range $60-80$.

Reviewer 2: "up tp the end of epoch $80" --> back (from current version) to end of epoch $80

\begin{figure}[ht]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{figures/state-sync-waypoint.pdf}
	\caption{\footnotesize{ChunkResponse carries the LI of a waypoint and an optional intermediate end-of-epoch LI.}}
	\label{fig:state-sync-waypoint}
\end{figure}

> The solution is for $B$ to bring the intermediate end-of-epoch \texttt{LedgerInfos} in a verifiable manner using the following rules depicted in Figure~\ref{fig:state-sync-waypoint}:

Reviewer 3: From my understanding, the difference between state sync across epoch and state sync with waypoints is not about bringing the intermediate end-of-epoch LedgerInfo(state sync across epoch brings them too) but the verification towards waypoints instead of the end-of-epoch LedgerInfo because of long range attack.

Imo this challenge is not described very clear  in this section, and the solution is not highlighted but just one of the bullet point below.
> The range of transactions in the response chunk is verified using the range merkle tree proof relativeto the version ofWaypointLedgerInfo.

\begin{itemize}
\item The chunks that are sent back never cross epoch boundaries.

> \item Each chunk response carries a \texttt{WaypointLedgerInfo}, determined by the target waypoint version. The receiver of \texttt{WaypointLedgerInfo} verifies it via its local waypoint.

Reviewer 2: it might be useful to define the WaypointLedgerInfo data struct
